Cat
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Domestic cat[1]
Conservation status
Domesticated
Scientific classification
Kingdom: 	Animalia
Phylum: 	Chordata
Class: 	Mammalia
Order: 	Carnivora
Family: 	Felidae
Genus: 	Felis
Species: 	F. catus
Binomial name
Felis catus
Linnaeus, 1758[2]
Synonyms

Felis catus domestica (invalid junior synonym)[3]
Felis silvestris catus[4]

The cat (Felis catus), also known as the domestic cat or housecat[5]
to distinguish it from other felines and felids, is a small furry
domesticated carnivorous mammal that is valued by humans for its
companionship and for its ability to hunt vermin and household
pests. Cats have been associated with humans for at least 9,500
years,[6] and are currently the most popular pet in the world.[7]
Owing to their close association with humans, cats are now found
almost everywhere in the world.

Cats are similar in anatomy to the other felids, with strong, flexible
bodies, quick reflexes, sharp retractable claws, and teeth adapted to
killing small prey. As nocturnal predators, cats use their acute
hearing and ability to see in near darkness to locate prey. Not only
can cats hear sounds too faint for human ears, they can also hear
sounds higher in frequency than humans can perceive. This is because
the usual prey of cats (particularly rodents such as mice) make high
frequency noises, so the hearing of the cat has evolved to pinpoint
these faint high-pitched sounds. Cats rely more on smell than taste,
and have a much better sense of smell than humans.

Despite being solitary hunters, cats are a social species and use a
variety of vocalizations, pheromones and types of body language for
communication. These include meowing, purring, trilling, hissing,
growling, and grunting.[8]

Cats have a rapid breeding rate. Under controlled breeding, they can
be bred and shown as registered pedigree pets, a hobby known as cat
fancy. Failure to control the breeding of pet cats by spaying and
neutering and the abandonment of former household pets has resulted in
large numbers of feral cats worldwide, with a population of up to 60
million of these animals in the United States alone.[9]
dog
The domestic dog (Canis lupus familiaris[3] and Canis lupus
dingo[1][2]) is a domesticated form of the gray wolf, a member of the
Canidae family of the order Carnivora. The term is used for both feral
and pet varieties. The dog may have been the first animal to be
domesticated, and has been the most widely kept working, hunting, and
companion animal in human history. The word "dog" may also mean the
male of a canine species,[4] as opposed to the word "bitch" for the
female of the species.[5]
mouse 
A mouse (plural: mice) is a small mammal belonging to the order
of rodents. The best known mouse species is the common house mouse
(Mus musculus). It is also a popular pet. In some places, certain
kinds of field mice are also common. This rodent is eaten by most 
large carnivorous birds such as hawks and eagles. They are known 
to invade homes for food and occasionally shelter.
